In addition to accessing individual elements from a list,
we can use Python's slicing notation to access a subsequence of a list.
Slicing, means using indices to slice off parts of an object like a string or a list.
An example makes it super clear.
Again, consider this list of months.
We can slice the third quarter of the year from the month's list like this.
The index to the left of the colon,
six is where the slice begins.
The slice continues up to the second index, nine.
Notice that the six is the index of July,
but nine is the index of October.
The lower bound is inclusive,
but the upper bound is exclusive.
There are couple of slicing shortcuts that simplify common situations.
If you would like to make a slice that begins at the very beginning of the original list,
you can omit the starting index like this,
or if you'd like to make a slice that ends at the very end of the original list,
you can omit the ending index like this.
List is a type just like string, float, and int.
Of the types we've seen,
lists are most similar to strings.
Both types support the len function, indexing, and slicing.
Here, you can see that the length of the string is the number of characters,
and the length of the list is a number of elements it holds,
and zero indexing is supported for both,
as well as slicing based on the indices shown here.
Another thing they both support are membership operators, in and not.
In, evaluates if the object on the left side is included in the object on the right side,
and not in evaluates if the object on
the left side is not included in the object on the right side.
Here, we can check if the string her is in this string, which is right here.
However, Sunday is not in our list as it only holds the months.